docs/src/main/sphinx/admin/properties-query-management.rst, before:

===========================
Query management properties
===========================

``query.max-execution-time``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``duration``
* **Default value:** ``100 days``
* **Session property:** ``query_max_execution_time``

The maximum allowed time for a query to be actively executing on the
cluster, before it is terminated. Compared to the run time below, execution
time does not include analysis, query planning or wait times in a queue.

``query.max-run-time``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``duration``
* **Default value:** ``100 days``
* **Session property:** ``query_max_run_time``

The maximum allowed time for a query to be processed on the cluster, before
it is terminated. The time includes time for analysis and planning, but also
time spend in a queue waiting, so essentially this is the time allowed for a
query to exist since creation.

``query.max-stage-count``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``100``
* **Minimum value:** ``1``

The maximum number of stages allowed to be generated per query. If a query
generates more stages than this it will get killed with error
``QUERY_HAS_TOO_MANY_STAGES``.

.. warning::

    Setting this to a high value can cause queries with large number of
    stages to introduce instability in the cluster causing unrelated queries
    to get killed with ``REMOTE_TASK_ERROR`` and the message
    ``Max requests queued per destination exceeded for HttpDestination ...``

``query.max-history``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``100``

The maximum number of queries to keep in the query history to provide
statistics and other information. If this amount is reached, queries are
removed based on age.

``query.min-expire-age``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``duration``
* **Default value:** ``15 min``

The minimal age of a query in the history before it is expired. An expired
query is removed from the query history buffer and no longer available in
the :doc:`/admin/web-interface`.

Commit message:

Add query planning time limit

docs/src/main/sphinx/admin/properties-query-management.rst, after:

===========================
Query management properties
===========================

``query.max-execution-time``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``duration``
* **Default value:** ``100 days``
* **Session property:** ``query_max_execution_time``

The maximum allowed time for a query to be actively executing on the
cluster, before it is terminated. Compared to the run time below, execution
time does not include analysis, query planning or wait times in a queue.

``query.max-planning-time``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``duration``
* **Default value:** ``10 minutes``
* **Session property:** ``query_max_planning_time``

The maximum allowed time for a query to be actively planning the execution,
before it is terminated.

``query.max-run-time``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``duration``
* **Default value:** ``100 days``
* **Session property:** ``query_max_run_time``

The maximum allowed time for a query to be processed on the cluster, before
it is terminated. The time includes time for analysis and planning, but also
time spend in a queue waiting, so essentially this is the time allowed for a
query to exist since creation.

``query.max-stage-count``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``100``
* **Minimum value:** ``1``

The maximum number of stages allowed to be generated per query. If a query
generates more stages than this it will get killed with error
``QUERY_HAS_TOO_MANY_STAGES``.

.. warning::

    Setting this to a high value can cause queries with large number of
    stages to introduce instability in the cluster causing unrelated queries
    to get killed with ``REMOTE_TASK_ERROR`` and the message
    ``Max requests queued per destination exceeded for HttpDestination ...``

``query.max-history``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``100``

The maximum number of queries to keep in the query history to provide
statistics and other information. If this amount is reached, queries are
removed based on age.

``query.min-expire-age``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``duration``
* **Default value:** ``15 min``

The minimal age of a query in the history before it is expired. An expired
query is removed from the query history buffer and no longer available in
the :doc:`/admin/web-interface`.
